---
title: "Step 1: Forking the repository"
datePublished: 2023-10-07
dateModified: 2023-10-07
---

# How and why fork a repository?

If you are interested in contributing code to a project, your very first step to
do that would be to fork the project's repository. This section will explain
what forking is, why is it necessary, and how to do it.

## What is forking?

Forking is the process of creating a new repository that shares the code with
another repository. That is, you are creating your own copy of the codebase of a
project so that you can work on it.

## Why fork?

Without forking, it would be hard for people to code in the same source code
without interfering with one another. Imagine the following:

Your and someone else are coding for a project simultaneously and you somehow
make a bug that crashes the program. The other person not being aware of this,
think it is coming from his code, which is untrue.

You can easily see why it is needed of you to fork the code repository so that
your contribution won't affect those of other developers.

## How to fork?

I will now walk you into forking a repository so that you will learn how to do
it.

After loging into www.github.com, go to the following URL:
https://github.com/samyosm/open-source-newcomer/.

At the right of the title (_open-source-newcomer_), you should see a button
saying fork. **Simply click on it.** There you have it, you've successfully
cloned a repository. You can verify this by going into your repositories and
seeing the repository there.
